<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"
	epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0"
	xml:lang="en-GB">

<head>
	<title>XI: From The Sandwich Islands To The Polar Circle.</title>
	<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>

<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
	<section id="chapter-11" epub:type="chapter">
		<hgroup>
			<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XI</h2>
			<h3 epub:type="title">From The Sandwich Islands To The Polar Circle.</h3>
		</hgroup>
		<p>The <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Halbrane</i>, singularly favoured by the weather, sighted the New
			South Orkneys group in six days
			after she had sailed from the Sandwich Islands. This archipelago was discovered by Palmer, an American, and
			Bothwell, an Englishman, jointly, in 1821⁠–⁠22. Crossed by the sixty-first parallel, it is comprehended
			between the forty-fourth and the forty, seventh meridian.</p>
		<p>On approaching, we were enabled to observe contorted masses and steep cliffs on the north side, which became
			less rugged as they neared the coast, at whose edge lay enormous ice-floes, heaped together in formidable
			confusion; these, before two months should have expired, would be drifted towards the temperate waters. At
			that season the whaling ships would appear to carry on the taking of the great blowing creatures, while some
			of their crews would remain on the islands to capture seals and sea-elephants.</p>
		<p>In order to avoid the strait, which was encumbered with islets and ice-floes, Captain Len Guy first cast
			anchor at the southeastern extremity of Laurie Island, where he passed the day on the 24th; then, having
			rounded Cape Dundas, he sailed along the southern coast of Coronation Island, where the schooner anchored on
			the 25th. Our close and careful researches produced no result as regarded the sailors of the <i
				epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Jane</i>.</p>
		<p>The islands and islets were peopled by multitudes of birds. Without taking the penguins into account, those
			guano-covered rocks were crowded with white pigeons, a species of which I had already seen some specimens.
			These birds have rather short, conical beaks, and red-rimmed eyelids; they can be knocked over with little
			difficulty. As for the vegetable kingdom in the New South Orkneys, it is represented only by grey lichen and
			some scanty seaweeds. Mussels are found in great abundance all along the rocks; of these we procured an
			ample supply.</p>
		<p>The boatswain and his men did not lose the opportunity of killing several dozens of penguins with their
			sticks, not from a ruthless instinct of destruction, but from the legitimate desire to procure fresh food.
		</p>
		<p>“Their flesh is just as good as chicken, <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Jeorling,” said Hurliguerly. “Did you not eat
			penguin at the
			Kerguelens?”</p>
		<p>“Yes, boatswain, but it was cooked by Atkins.”</p>
		<p>“Very well, then; it will be cooked by Endicott here, and you will not know the difference.”</p>
		<p>And in fact we in the saloon, like the men in the forecastle, were regaled with penguin, and acknowledged the
			merits of our excellent sea-cook.</p>
		<p>The <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Halbrane</i> sailed on the 26th of November, at six o’clock in the
			morning, heading south. She
			reascended the forty-third meridian; this we were able to ascertain very exactly by a good observation. This
			route it was that Weddell and then William Guy had followed, and, provided the schooner did not deflect
			either to the east or the west, she must inevitably come to Tsalal Island. The difficulties of navigation
			had to be taken into account, of course.</p>
		<p>The wind, continuing to blow steadily from the west, was in our favour, and if the present speed of the
			<i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Halbrane</i> could be maintained, as I ventured to suggest to Captain Len
			Guy, the voyage from the South
			Orkneys to the Polar Circle would be a short one. Beyond, as I knew, we should have to force the gate of the
			thick barrier of icebergs, or to discover a breach in that ice-fortress.
		</p>
		<p>“So that, in less than a month, captain⁠—” I suggested, tentatively.</p>
		<p>“In less than a month I hope to have found the iceless sea which Weddell and Arthur Pym describe so fully,
			beyond the ice-wall, and thenceforth we need only sail on under ordinary conditions to Bennet Island in the
			first place, and afterwards to Tsalal Island. Once on that ‘wide open sea,’ what obstacle could arrest or
			even retard our progress?”</p>
		<p>“I can foresee none, captain, so soon as we shall get to the back of the ice-wall. The passage through is the
			difficult point; it must be our chief source of anxietys and if only the wind holds⁠—”</p>
		<p>“It will hold, <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Jeorling. All the navigators of the austral seas have been able to ascertain,
			as I myself
			have done, the permanence of this wind.”</p>
		<p>“That is true, and I rejoice in the assurance, captain. Besides, I acknowledge, without shrinking from the
			admission, that I am beginning to be superstitious.”</p>
		<p>“And why not, <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Jeorling? What is there unreasonable in admitting the intervention of a
			supernatural power
			in the most ordinary circumstances of life? And we, who sail the <i
				epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Halbrane</i>, should we venture to doubt
			it? Recall to your mind our meeting with the unfortunate Patterson on our ship’s course, the fragment of ice
			carried into the waters where we were, and dissolved immediately afterwards. Were not these facts
			providential? Nay, I go farther still, and am sure that, after having done so much to guide us towards our
			compatriots, God will not abandon us⁠—”</p>
		<p>“I think as you think, captain. No, His intervention is not to be denied, and I do not believe that chance
			plays the part assigned to it by superficial minds upon the stage of human life. All the facts are united by
			a mysterious chain.”</p>
		<p>“A chain, <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Jeorling, whose first link, so far as we are concerned, is Patterson’s ice-block,
			and whose
			last will be Tsalal Island. Ah! My brother! my poor brother! Left there for eleven years, with his
			companions in misery, without being able to entertain the hope that succour ever could reach them! And
			Patterson carried far away from them, under we know not what conditions, they not knowing what had become of
			him! If my heart is sick when I think of these catastrophes, <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Jeorling, at least it will not
			fail me
			unless it be at the moment when my brother throws himself into my arms.”</p>
		<p>So then we two were agreed in our trust in Providence. It had been made plain to us in a manifest fashion
			that God had entrusted us with a mission, and we would do all that might be humanly possible to accomplish
			it.</p>
		<p>The schooner’s crew, I ought to mention, were animated by the like sentiments, and shared the same hopes. I
			allude to the original seamen who were so devoted to their captain. As for the new ones, they were probably
			indifferent to the result of the enterprise, provided it should secure the profits promised to them by their
			engagement.</p>
		<p>At least, I was assured by the boatswain that such was the case, but with the exception of Hunt. This man had
			apparently not been induced to take service by the bribe of high wages or prize money. He was absolutely
			silent on that and every other subject.</p>
		<p>“If he does not speak to you, boatswain,” I said, “neither does he speak to me.”</p>
		<p>“Do you know, <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Jeorling, what it is my notion that man has already done?”</p>
		<p>“Tell me, Hurliguerly.”</p>
		<p>“Well, then, I believe he has gone far, far into the southern seas, let him be as dumb as a fish about it.
			Why he is dumb is his own affair. But if that sea-hog of a man has not been inside the Antarctic Circle and
			even the ice wall by a good dozen degrees, may the first sea we ship carry me overboard.”</p>
		<p>“From what do you judge, boatswain?”</p>
		<p>“From his eyes, <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Jeorling, from his eyes. No matter at what moment, let the ship’s head be as
			it may,
			those eyes of his are always on the south, open, unwinking, fixed like guns in position.”</p>
		<p>Hurliguerly did not exaggerate, and I had already remarked this. To employ an expression of Edgar Poe’s, Hunt
			had eyes like a falcon’s.</p>
		<p>“When he is not on the watch,” resumed the boatswain, “that savage leans all the time with his elbows on the
			side, as motionless as he is mute. His right place would be at the end of our bow, where he would do for a
			figurehead to the Halbrane, and a very ugly one at that! And then, when he is at the helm,
			<abbr>Mr.</abbr> Jeorling,
			just observe him! His enormous hands clutch the handles as though they were fastened to the wheel; he gazes
			at the binnacle as though the magnet of the compass were drawing his eyes. I pride myself on being a good
			steersman, but as for being the equal of Hunt, I’m not! With him, not for an instant does the needle vary
			from the sailing-line, however rough a lurch she may give. I am sure that if the binnacle lamp were to go
			out in the night Hunt would not require to relight it. The fire in his eyes would light up the dial and keep
			him right.”
		</p>
		<p>For several days our navigation went on in unbroken monotony, without a single incident, and under favourable
			conditions. The spring season was advancing, and whales began to make their appearance in large numbers.</p>
		<p>In these waters a week would suffice for ships of heavy tonnage to fill their casks with the precious oil.
			Thus the new men of the crew, and especially the Americans, did not conceal their regret for the captain’s
			indifference in the presence of so many animals worth their weight in gold, and more abundant than they had
			ever seen whales at that period of the year. The leading malcontent was Hearne, a sealing-master, to whom
			his companions were ready to listen. He had found it easy to get the upper hand of the other sailors by his
			rough manner and the surly audacity that was expressed by his whole personality. Hearne was an American, and
			forty-five years of age. He was an active, vigorous man, and I could see him in my mind’s eye, standing up
			on his double bowed whaling-boat brandishing the harpoon, darting it into the flank of a whale, and paying
			out the rope. He must have been fine to see. Granted his passion for this business, I could not be surprised
			that his discontent showed itself upon occasion. In any case, however, our schooner was not fitted out for
			fishing, and the implements of whaling were not on board.</p>
		<p>One day, about three o’clock in the afternoon, I had gone forward to watch the gambols of a “school” of the
			huge sea mammals. Hearne was pointing them out to his companions, and muttering in disjointed phrases⁠—</p>
		<p>“There, look there! That’s a finback! There’s another, and another; three of them with their dorsal fins
			five or six feet high. Just see them swimming between two waves, quietly, making no jumps. Ah! if I had a
			harpoon, I bet my head that I could send it into one of the four yellow spots they have on their bodies. But
			there’s nothing to be done in this traffic-box; one cannot stretch one’s arms. Devil take it! In these seas
			it is fishing we ought to be at, not⁠—”</p>
		<p>Then, stopping short, he swore a few oaths, and cried out, “And that other whale!”</p>
		<p>“The one with a hump like a dromedary?” asked a sailor.</p>
		<p>“Yes. It is a humpback,” replied Hearne. “Do you make out its wrinkled belly, and also its long dorsal fin?
			They’re not easy to take, those humpbacks, for they go down into great depths and devour long reaches of
			your lines. Truly, we deserve that he should give us a switch of his tail on our side, since we don’t send a
			harpoon into his.”</p>

		<p>“Look out! Look out!” shouted the boatswain. This was not to warn us that we were in danger of receiving the
			formidable stroke of the humpback’s tail which the sealing-master had wished us. No, an enormous blower had
			come alongside the schooner, and almost on the instant a spout of ill-smelling water was ejected from its
			blowhole with a noise like a distant roar of artillery. The whole foredeck to the main hatch was inundated.
		</p>
		<p>“That’s well done!” growled Hearne, shrugging his shoulders, while his companions shook themselves and cursed
			the humpback.</p>
		<p>Besides these two kinds of cetacea we had observed several right-whales, and these are the most usually met
			with in the southern seas. They have no fins, and their blubber is very thick. The taking of these fat
			monsters of the deep is not attended with much danger. The right-whales are vigorously pursued in the
			southern seas, where the little shell fish called “whales’ food” abound. The whales subsist entirely upon
			these small crustaceans.</p>
		<p>Presently, one of these right-whales, measuring sixty feet in length⁠—that is to say, the animal was the
			equivalent of a hundred barrels of oil⁠—was seen floating within three cables’ lengths of the schooner.</p>
		<p>“Yes! that’s a right-whale,” exclaimed Hearne. “You might tell it by its thick, short spout. See, that one on
			the port side, like a column of smoke, that’s the spout of a right-whale! And all this is passing before our
			very noses⁠—a dead loss! Why, it’s like emptying moneybags into the sea not to fill one’s barrels when one
			can. A nice sort of captain, indeed, to let all this merchandise be lost, and do such wrong to his crew!”
		</p>
		<p>“Hearne,” said an imperious voice, “go up to the maintop. You will be more at your ease there to reckon the
			whales.”</p>
		<p>“But, sir⁠—”</p>
		<p>“No reply, or I’ll keep you up there until tomorrow. Come⁠—be off at once.”</p>
		<p>And as he would have got the worst of an attempt at resistance, the sealing-master obeyed in silence.</p>
		<p>The season must have been abnormally advanced, for although we continued to see a vast number of testaceans,
			we did not catch sight of a single whaling-ship in all this fishing-ground.</p>
		<p>I hasten to state that, although we were not to be tempted by whales, no other fishing was forbidden on board
			the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Halbrane</i>, and our daily bill of fare profited by the boatswain’s
			trawling lines, to the extreme
			satisfaction of stomachs weary of salt meat. Our lines brought us goby, salmon, cod, mackerel, conger,
			mullet, and parrotfish.</p>
		<p>The birds which we saw, and which came from every point of the horizon, were those I have already mentioned,
			petrels, divers, halcyons, and pigeons in countless flocks. I also saw⁠—but beyond aim⁠—a giant petrel; its
			dimensions were truly astonishing. This was one of those called “quebrantahnesos” by the Spaniards. This
			bird of the Magellanian waters is very remarkable; its curved and slender wings have a span of from thirteen
			to fourteen feet, equal to that of the wings of the great albatross. Nor is the latter wanting among these
			powerful winged creatures; we saw the dusky-plumed albatross of the cold latitudes, sweeping towards the
			glacial zone.</p>
		<p>On the 30th of November, after observation taken at noon, it was found that we had reached 66° 3′ 3″ of
			latitude.</p>
		<p>The <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Halbrane</i> had then crossed the Polar Circle which circumscribes the
			area of the Antarctic
			zone.<br /></p>
	</section>
</body>

</html>