<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"
	epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0"
	xml:lang="en-GB">

<head>
	<title>I: The Kerguelen Islands</title>
	<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>

<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
	<section id="chapter-1" epub:type="chapter">
		<hgroup>
			<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</h2>
			<h3 epub:type="title">The Kerguelen Islands</h3>
		</hgroup>
		<p>No doubt the following narrative will be received with entire incredulity, but I think it well that the
			public should be put in possession of the facts narrated in “An Antarctic Mystery.” The public is free to
			believe them or not, at its good pleasure.</p>
		<p>No more appropriate scene for the wonderful and terrible adventures which I am about to relate could be
			imagined than the Desolation Islands, so called, in 1779, by Captain Cook. I lived there for several weeks,
			and I can affirm, on the evidence of my own eyes and my own experience, that the famous English explorer and
			navigator was happily inspired when he gave the islands that significant name.</p>
		<p>Geographical nomenclature, however, insists on the name of Kerguelen, which is generally adopted for the
			group which lies in 49° 5′ south latitude, and 69° 6′ east longitude. This is just, because in 1772, Baron
			Kerguelen, a Frenchman, was the first to discover those islands in the southern part of the Indian Ocean.
			Indeed, the commander of the squadron on that voyage believed that he had found a new continent on the limit
			of the Antarctic seas, but in the course of a second expedition he recognized his error. There was only an
			archipelago. I may be believed when I assert that Desolation Islands is the only suitable name for this
			group of three hundred isles or islets in the midst of the vast expanse of ocean, which is constantly
			disturbed by austral storms.</p>
		<p>Nevertheless, the group is inhabited, and the number of Europeans and Americans who formed the nucleus of the
			Kerguelen population at the date of the 2nd of August, 1839, had been augmented for two months past by a
			unit in my person. Just then I was waiting for an opportunity of leaving the place, having completed the
			geological and mineralogical studies which had brought me to the group in general and to Christmas Harbour
			in particular.</p>
		<p>Christmas Harbour belongs to the most important islet of the archipelago, one that is about half as large as
			Corsica. It is safe, and easy, and free of access. Your ship may ride securely at single anchor in its
			waters, while the bay remains free from ice.</p>
		<p>The Kerguelens possess hundreds of other fjords. Their coasts are notched and ragged, especially in the parts
			between the north and the southeast, where little islets abound. The soil, of volcanic origin, is composed
			of quartz, mixed with a bluish stone. In summer it is covered with green mosses, grey lichens, various hardy
			plants, especially wild saxifrage. Only one edible plant grows there, a kind of cabbage, not found anywhere
			else, and very bitter of flavour. Great flocks of royal and other penguins people these islets, finding good
			lodging on their rocky and mossy surface. These stupid birds, in their yellow and white feathers, with their
			heads thrown back and their wings like the sleeves of a monastic habit, look, at a distance, like monks in
			single file walking in procession along the beach.</p>
		<p>The islands afford refuge to numbers of sea-calves, seals, and sea-elephants. The taking of those amphibious
			animals either on land or from the sea is profitable, and may lead to a trade which will bring a large
			number of vessels into these waters.</p>
		<p>On the day already mentioned, I was accosted while strolling on the port by mine host of mine inn.</p>
		<p>“Unless I am much mistaken, time is beginning to seem very long to you, <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Jeorling?”</p>
		<p>The speaker was a big tall American who kept the only inn on the port.</p>
		<p>“If you will not be offended, <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Atkins, I will acknowledge that I do find it long.”</p>
		<p>“Of course I won’t be offended. Am I not as well used to answers of that kind as the rocks of the Cape to the
			rollers?”</p>
		<p>“And you resist them equally well.”</p>
		<p>“Of course. From the day of your arrival at Christmas Harbour, when you came to the Green Cormorant, I said
			to myself that in a fortnight, if not in a week, you would have enough of it, and would be sorry you had
			landed in the Kerguelens.”</p>
		<p>“No, indeed, <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Atkins; I never regret anything I have done.”</p>
		<p>“That’s a good habit, sir.”</p>
		<p>“Besides, I have gained knowledge by observing curious things here. I have crossed the rolling plains,
			covered with hard stringy mosses, and I shall take away curious mineralogical and geological specimens with
			me. I have gone sealing, and taken sea-calves with your people. I have visited the rookeries where the
			penguin and the albatross live together in good fellowship, and that was well worth my while. You have given
			me now and again a dish of petrel, seasoned by your own hand, and very acceptable when one has a fine
			healthy appetite. I have found a friendly welcome at the Green Cormorant, and I am very much obliged to you.
			But, if I am right in my reckoning, it is two months since the Chilian two-master <i
				epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Penãs</i> set me down
			at Christmas Harbour in midwinter.</p>
		<p>“And you want to get back to your own country, which is mine, <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Jeorling; to return to
			Connecticut, to
			Providence, our capital.”</p>
		<p>“Doubtless, <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Atkins, for I have been a globetrotter for close upon three years. One must
			come to a stop
			and take root at some time.”</p>
		<p>“Yes, and when one has taken root, one puts out branches.”</p>
		<p>“Just so, <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Atkins. However, as I have no relations living, it is likely that I shall be the
			last of my
			line. I am not likely to take a fancy for marrying at forty.”</p>
		<p>“Well, well, that is a matter of taste. Fifteen years ago I settled down comfortably at Christmas Harbour
			with my Betsy; she has presented me with ten children, who in their turn will present me with
			grandchildren.”</p>
		<p>“You will not return to the old country?”</p>
		<p>“What should I do there, <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Jeorling, and what could I ever have done there? There was nothing
			before me but
			poverty. Here, on the contrary, in these Islands of Desolation, where I have no reason to feel desolate,
			ease and competence have come to me and mine!”</p>
		<p>“No doubt, and I congratulate you, <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Atkins, for you are a happy man. Nevertheless it is not
			impossible
			that the fancy may take you some day⁠—”</p>
		<p><abbr>Mr.</abbr> Atkins answered by a vigorous and convincing shake of the head. It was very pleasant to hear
			this worthy
			American talk. He was completely acclimatized on his archipelago, and to the conditions of life there. He
			lived with his family as the penguins lived in their rookeries. His wife was a “valiant” woman of the
			Scriptural type, his sons were strong, hardy fellows, who did not know what sickness meant. His business was
			prosperous. The Green Cormorant had the custom of all the ships, whalers and others, that put in at
			Kerguelen. Atkins supplied them with everything they required, and no second inn existed at Christmas
			Harbour. His sons were carpenters, sailmakers, and fishers, and they hunted the amphibians in all the creeks
			during the hot season. In short, this was a family of honest folk who fulfilled their destiny without much
			difficulty.</p>
		<p>“Once more, <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Atkins, let me assure you,” I resumed, “I am delighted to have come to
			Kerguelen. I shall
			always remember the islands kindly. Nevertheless, I should not be sorry to find myself at sea again.”</p>
		<p>“Come, <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Jeorling, you must have a little patience,” said the philosopher, “you must not
			forget that the
			fine days will soon be here. In five or six weeks⁠—”</p>
		<p>“Yes, and in the meantime, the hills and the plains, the rocks and the shores will be covered thick with
			snow, and the sun will not have strength to dispel the mists on the horizon.”</p>
		<p>“Now, there you are again, <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Jeorling! Why, the wild grass is already peeping through the
			white sheet! Just
			look!”</p>
		<p>“Yes, with a magnifying glass! Between ourselves, Atkins, could you venture to pretend that your bays are not
			still ice-locked in this month of August, which is the February of our northern hemisphere?”</p>
		<p>“I acknowledge that, <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Jeorling. But again I say have patience! The winter has been mild this
			year. The
			ships will soon show up, in the east or in the west, for the fishing season is near.”</p>
		<p>“May Heaven hear you, Atkins, and guide the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Halbrane</i> safely into
			port.”</p>
		<p>“Captain Len Guy? Ah, he’s a good sailor, although he’s English⁠—there are good people everywhere⁠—and he
			takes in his supplies at the Green Cormorant.”</p>
		<p>“You think the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Halbrane</i>⁠—”</p>
		<p>“Will be signalled before a week, <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Jeorling, or, if not, it will be because there is no
			longer a Captain
			Len Guy; and if there is no longer a Captain Len Guy, it is because the <i
				epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Halbrane</i> has sunk in full sail between the Kerguelens and the Cape
			of Good Hope.”</p>
		<p>Thereupon <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Atkins walked away, with a scornful gesture, indicating that such an eventuality
			was out of all
			probability.</p>
		<p>My intention was to take my passage on board the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Halbrane</i> so soon as
			she should come to her moorings in Christmas Harbour. After a rest of six or seven days, she would set sail
			again for Tristan d’Acunha, where she was to discharge her cargo of tin and copper. I meant to stay in the
			island for a few weeks of the fine season, and from thence set out for Connecticut. Nevertheless, I did not
			fail to take into due account the share that belongs to chance in human affairs, for it is wise, as Edgar
			Poe has said, always “to reckon with the unforeseen, the unexpected, the inconceivable, which have a very
			large share (in those affairs), and chance ought always to be a matter of strict calculation.”</p>
		<p>Each day I walked about the port and its neighbourhood. The sun was growing strong. The rocks were emerging
			by degrees from their winter clothing of snow; moss of a wine-like colour was springing up on the basalt
			cliffs, strips of seaweed fifty yards long were floating on the sea, and on the plain the lyella, which is
			of Andean origin, was pushing up its little points, and the only leguminous plant of the region, that
			gigantic cabbage already mentioned, valuable for its anti-scorbutic properties, was making its appearance.
		</p>
		<p>I had not come across a single land mammal⁠—sea mammals swarm in these waters⁠—not even of the batrachian or
			reptilian kinds. A few insects only⁠—butterflies or others⁠—and even these did not fly, for before they
			could use their wings, the atmospheric currents carried the tiny bodies away to the surface of the rolling
			waves.</p>
		<p>“And the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Halbrane</i>” I used to say to Atkins each morning.</p>
		<p>“The <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Halbrane</i>, <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Jeorling,” he would reply with
			complacent
			assurance, “will surely come into port today, or, if not today, tomorrow.”</p>
		<p>In my rambles on the shore, I frequently routed a crowd of amphibians, sending them plunging into the newly
			released waters. The penguins, heavy and impassive creatures, did not disappear at my approach; they took no
			notice; but the black petrels, the puffins, black and white, the grebes and others, spread their wings at
			sight of me.</p>
		<p>One day I witnessed the departure of an albatross, saluted by the very best croaks of the penguins, no doubt
			as a friend whom they were to see no more. Those powerful birds can fly for two hundred leagues without
			resting for a moment, and with such rapidity that they sweep through vast spaces in a few hours. The
			departing albatross sat motionless upon a high rock, at the end of the bay of Christmas Harbour, looking at
			the waves as they dashed violently against the beach.</p>
		<p>Suddenly, the bird rose with a great sweep into the air, its claws folded beneath it, its head stretched out
			like the prow of a ship, uttering its shrill cry: a few moments later it was reduced to a black speck in the
			vast height and disappeared behind the misty curtain of the south.</p>
	</section>
</body>

</html>